
# Calculator Project

This is a simple calculator project in Go, demonstrating the use of Go modules and dependency management.

## Project Structure

```plaintext
calculator/
├── go.mod
└── main.go
```

## Initial Setup

1. **Project Creation:**
   ```sh
   mkdir calculator
   cd calculator
   go mod init github.com/shaileshyadav7771/calculator
   ```
   This initializes a new Go module and creates a go.mod file.

2. **Add the mathutil Dependency:**
   ```sh
   go get github.com/shaileshyadav7771/mathutil
   ```
   This command adds mathutil as a dependency to our calculator application.

3. **go.mod File After Adding Dependency:**
   ```plaintext
   module github.com/shaileshyadav7771/calculator

   go 1.17

   require github.com/shaileshyadav7771/mathutil v0.0.0-20240713152900-6a5890957652 // indirect
   ```

## Go Environment

**To check GOPATH:**
```sh
go env GOPATH
```

## Directory Structure of $GOPATH

```plaintext
C:\Users\A\go
├── bin
├── pkg
│   ├── mod
│   │   └── github.com
│   │       └── shaileshyadav7771
│   │           └── mathutil@v0.0.0-20240713152900-6a5890957652
│   │               ├── addition.go
│   │               ├── go.mod
│   │               ├── multiplication.go
│   │               ├── README.md
│   │               └── subtraction.go
└── src
```

## Step-by-Step Build Process

Run `go build`/`go run`/`go test`:

1. Initiates the build, run, or test process for the Go project.
2. Parses `main.go` and other source files to identify import statements and determine dependencies.
3. Checks `go.mod` file to determine the module and version of each import.

Example `go.mod` file:
   ```plaintext
   module github.com/shaileshyadav7771/calculator

   go 1.17

   require github.com/shaileshyadav7771/mathutil v0.0.0-20240713152900-6a5890957652
   ```

4. Looks up in the module cache at `$GOPATH/pkg/mod` for the specified module and version.
5. Downloads missing dependencies if not found in the cache.
6. Uses the cached or newly downloaded modules to compile and build the project.

## Output and Storage Locations

### Module Cache ($GOPATH/pkg/mod)

- **Location:** `$GOPATH/pkg/mod`
- **Contents:**
  1. Contains cached versions of all modules that your project depends on.
  2. Includes source code of dependencies and compiled package objects.

### Project Directory

- **Location:** Wherever your project is located.
- **Contents:**
  1. Contains executable binary generated by `go build`.
  2. Holds compiled objects temporarily during the build process.

## Conclusion

Running `go build`/`go run`/`go test` initiates:

1. Build, run, or test processes.
2. Parsing of `main.go` and other source files.
3. Checking of `go.mod` file for dependencies.
4. Lookup in the module cache.
5. Downloading missing dependencies if necessary.
6. Compilation and build using cached or downloaded modules.
